~~- missiles, and our Polaris submarines, are all ready for instant use. We are in a position to counter any aggression promptly and effectively. 2. In the area of conventional forces, we have a substantial numerical superiority over the forces of the Warsaw Pact in Europe, with five million men under arms compared to three and one-half million. We are increasing our conventional forces in Europe, and we are urging our allies to do the same. Our tactical nuclear forces in Europe have been increased by over a third in the past year. 3. In the area of air defense, we have made great strides in the past four years. Our air defense forces are now capable of detecting and destroying enemy aircraft before they reach their targets. We are now in the process of deploying the latest interceptor aircraft, the F-106, which will give us a further capability in this area. 

Draft January 12, 1965 PROPOSED PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE ON DEFENSE TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES: A few days ago, I spoke to you on the State of our Federal Union. Today, I wish to report to you on the critical matter of our national defense. While much of the world is nominally at peace, there remain fires of violence and disorder which are as yet unquenched. There remain in the family of nations those who are willing, if not eager, to impose their own philosophy upon others by resort to force. There remain those who have demonstrated, more than once, that they will resort to acts of armed aggression to subvert their neighbors' freedom. So long as such conditions prevail in the world, the duty to provide for the common defense of all our people remains a most solemn and pressing obligation of the Congress. Accordingly, I wish both to consider with you the present state of the defenses we have provided, and to offer my recommendations as Commander-in-Chief on our course for the future. THE STATE OF OUR DEFENSES 1. Our country now has at its command the greatest military might ever assembled by any nation. The alliance of free men is today stronger than any possible adversary. We are stronger than any possible combination of adversaries-- and our strength continues to grow. Equally important, there now exists a wider awareness of that power among our allies and potential adversaries alike. Our own appreciation of our commanding superiority over any possible enemy has also increased. We know -- beyond peradventure -- that our strength far exceeds that of our principal adversaries combined and we intend to keep this balance of power. Our strategic nuclear power on alert is three times what it was four years ago. Our strategic bombers - over half of which can be in the skies en route to their targets within 15 minutes, our land-based missiles, and our Polaris submarines, are all ready for instant use. We are in a position to counter any aggression promptly and effectively. 2. In the area of conventional forces, we have a substantial numerical superiority over the forces of the Warsaw Pact in Europe, with five million men under arms compared to three and a half million. Our assessment of this comparison is based on the fact that the five million men under arms includes contingents stationed in Asia, whereas the Warsaw Pact figure does not. Therefore, if it remains our purpose to get a stepped-up European ante of conventional forces, our case is strengthened by the fact that our Western manpower is a half million greater than the communists in Europe. 3. In the area of air defense, we have made great strides in the past four years. Our air defense forces are now capable of detecting and destroying enemy aircraft before they reach their targets. We are now in the process of deploying the latest interceptor aircraft, the F-106, which will give us a further capability in this area.