£or a c-ese-fire, and s,t u,. a con- ference for a political settlement of the Vietnam problem". 6. Since 22 March the North Vietnamese have insisted that the NLt play a "decisive role" in any negotiations. This position has been supported by the Chinese, who have refused to even hint at the possibility of negotiations on any but Communist terms. 7. The Soviet Union initially appeared willing to try to arrange negotiations of some sort on Southeast Asian issues, but after the US began bombing North Vietnam, their position has not changed.

Corrected Hypothesis Text: Since the intensification of the war in Vietnam early in February, all the communist regimes involved have progressively hardened their positions on negotiations. The North Vietnamese have always been somewhat vague on the possibility of negotiations, but steadfast in their insistence that the US must withdraw its troops from the area, the Geneva Accords of 1954 be faithfully carried out, and the South Vietnamese, including the Liberation Front, be allowed to settle their differences by themselves. Their position hardened after the US began bombing North Vietnam. They now insist that cessation of the bombings is necessary for a "settlement" of the problem. Since 22 March they have also insisted that the UN must play a "decisive role" in any negotiations. Though the details of their position remain murky as the beginning of negotiations, the various elements in that position are advanced as the "soundest basis for a settlement," but Hanoi has never made clear if all the elements are also "Pre-conditions" for negotiations. 

The Chinese have been the most consistent. Their position, which calls for the withdrawal of US troops, cessation of US "aggression," and refusal to even hint at the possibility of negotiations on any but Communist terms, has not been altered by the change in the pattern of the war. The Chinese have stated that US bombings must cease, and have supported Hanoi and the Front on the need for the Front to take part in negotiations.

Immediately after the first US bombing attacks, the Soviet Union appeared willing to try to arrange negotiations of some sort on Southeast Asian issues. However, their position has not changed since the US began bombing North Vietnam. They have consistently supported Hanoi's position on the war forming the basis for negotiations; they do not appear to believe that the time is ripe for any serious maneuvering to bring about a ceasefire, cessation of US attacks, or negotiations in Vietnam.

The official Liberation Front position is similar to that taken by North Vietnam. The North Vietnamese attitude toward negotiations has not been changed by the US air strikes. Hanoi has traditionally been deliberately vague on its terms for negotiations, preferring instead to talk about its demands for a "settlement" of the problem. For example, in a party daily editorial on 5 March 1965, Hanoi stated that the way out for the US is to "withdraw its troops, respect the Geneva Accords for a ceasefire, and set up a conference for a political settlement of the Vietnam problem".